---
layout: post
title: "Around the Block 9/06"
author: PCI
date: 2015-09-06
excerpt: "What's going on this week in film around Philly"
image: "/images/aroundtheblock.jpg"
displayimage: "yes"
tags: 
- feature

---
##Around Campus

####**PCI Weekly Screening**
We really don’t want to toot our own horn, but PCI’s first screening of the year is happening on **Thursday, September 10th, at 9pm**. *Being John Malkovich*, the 1999 classic from Charlie Kaufman and Spike Jonze, about a puppeteer played by John Cusack who discovers a portal into actor John Malkovich’s mind, will be presented by PCI member and Editor of *The Moviegoer*, Brad Pettigrew. Join us to find out how you can get involved with the club, but also to watch a movie that we at PCI can watch a hundred times over. 


####**CINE 180**
As we featured last week, Prof. Nicola Gentili, Associate Director of the Cinema Studies program at Penn, teaches CINE 180, a residential film program that meets in Harrison College House. The theme for this year covers “Great Directors” in cinema.

This week, the class will be screening and discussing Deepa Mehta’s *Earth* (1998) on **Sunday, September 6th at 7pm**, and John Ford’s *Stagecoach* (1939) on **Tuesday September 8th, at 7:30pm**. 


####**Gregory College House**
Gregory College House runs a [Film Culture Program](http://gregory.house.upenn.edu/film_culture) for its residents, with screenings happening every day. This week features two auteurs, George Miller and Woody Allen, demonstrating their strongest skills. 

On **Sunday, September 6th**, Gregory College House Dean Christopher Donovan will be screening Miller’s *Mad Max: The Road Warrior* (1981) and *Mad Max: Fury Road* (2015) back to back, from 7pm to 11pm. 

On **Tuesday, September 8th**, Gregory will be screening Allen’s *Midnight in Paris* (2011), and on **Wednesday, September 9th**, they’ll be screening Allen’s *Manhattan* (1979), with students functioning as screening moderators for a post-screening discussion. Both films will start at 8pm on their respective dates. 


####**International House of Philadelphia**
IHP’s line-up for this week is on the slower side, but an underseen animated gem makes an appearance. *The King and the Mockingbird*, the 1980 film from Paul Grimault and French poet Jacques Prevert, was begun in 1948, and was dragged through production for 30 years. It’s a film that has been regarded as a masterpiece of French animation, and has been cited as an influence on Japanese directors Hayao Miyazaki and Isao Takahata. You can catch it on **Saturday, September 12th**, at [2:00pm](http://ihousephilly.org/calendar/the-king-and-the-mockingbird-english-version) (English version) or [7:00pm](http://ihousephilly.org/calendar/the-king-and-the-mockingbird-french-version) (French version). 

##Around the City

####**This Week at the Ritz**
While we highlighted several of the mainstays that have been around since August last week, there are newer films worth checking out at the Ritz this week. 

At **The Ritz at the Bourse**, the great documentarian Alex Gibney, known for the Oscar-winning *Taxi to the Dark Side*, and the recent film that kicked Hollywood’s hornet’s nest, *Going Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief*, returns to theaters. His latest project, [*Steve Jobs: Man in the Machine*](http://www.landmarktheatres.com/philadelphia/film-info/steve-jobs-the-man-in-the-machine), is decidedly less controversial. Critics point out that it doesn’t offer material that hasn’t been covered in biographies written about him, but Gibney “potently synthesizes what’s out there” (David Edelstein, Vulture). 

At **Ritz Five**,  a small film has been kicking around for the last couple of weeks. It’s filled with a bevy of character actors, making it a film we really want to catch. [*Grandma*](http://www.landmarktheatres.com/philadelphia/film-info/grandma), from writer-director Paul Weitz, features Lily Tomlin and Julia Garner as a grandmother-granddaughter team who journey through Los Angeles trying to secure $600 for the latter’s abortion. Alongside Tomlin, who, according to critics, gives the performance of her career, are veterans like Sam Elliott and Marcia Gay Harden and indie mainstays Laverne Cox and Judy Greer. 

At **Ritz East**, Marielle Heller’s [*The Diary of a Teenage Girl*](http://www.landmarktheatres.com/philadelphia/film-info/the-diary-of-a-teenage-girl) is a film more people need to see. With a 94% on RT, festival praise from Sundance, and a knockout cast, including Alexander Skarsgard and Kristen Wiig, it is certainly worth your time. Although its plot is uncomfortably close to films like *An Education*, and *Fish Tank*, as critic Bilge Ebiri points out, what’s new here is “the earthiness that Heller and her young lead bring to Minnie’s experimentations with sex and drugs”. 


####**PhilaMOCA**
This week at the **Philadelphia Mausoleum of Contemporary Art**, you can catch a cult celebrity in the form of Greg Sestero, who played Mark in the cult classic *The Room* (2003). Sestero will be doing a live script reading on [Friday, September 11, at 11:00pm](http://www.brownpapertickets.com/event/2169118), and the event will also feature rare footage that’s not in the film. If that's not enough, The Ritz at the Bourse is also playing [*The Room*](http://www.landmarktheatres.com/philadelphia/ritz-at-the-bourse/film-info/the-room) at midnight on the same day. 



