---
layout: post
title: "Around the Block 9/27"
author: PCI
authorurl: "/writer/PCI/"
date: 2015-09-27
excerpt: "What's going on this week in film around Philly"
image: "/images/aroundtheblock.jpg"
displayimage: "yes"
tags: 
- feature

---
##Around Campus

####**PCI Weekly Screening**
This week the Penn Cinema Initiative will be going downtown for its first Year of Discovery event, Denis Villeneuve’s crime thriller, Sicario. Emily Blunt stars as FBI agent Kate Mercer, who is tasked with tracking down a drug lord on the United States-Mexico border. Villeneuve’s Incendies was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Film in 2011, and his most recent film, Enemy, starring Jake Gyllenhaal, was released in 2013 to critical acclaim. This screening will take place down at Studio Movie Grill in Upper Darby; don’t miss this chance to catch one of the most promising films of 2015!


####**CINE 180**
Prof. Nicola Gentili, Associate Director of the Cinema Studies program at Penn, teaches CINE 180, a residential film program that meets in Harrison College House. The theme for this year covers “Great Directors” in cinema. This week, the class will be screening and discussing *No Country for Old Men* on **Monday, September 28th at 10pm**, and *Orlando* on **Tuesday, September 29th, at 7:30pm**.



####**Gregory College House**
Gregory College House runs a [Film Culture Program](http://gregory.house.upenn.edu/film_culture) for its residents, with screenings happening every day. This week, we have a selection of childhood narratives both contemporary and classic.

On **Monday, September 14th**, Michael Molisani will be screening Linklater’s *Dazed and Confused* at 8pm. On **Tuesday, September 15th**, Gregory will be screening Allen’s Vicky Cristina Barcelona (2008).

On **Monday, September 28**, the Michael Molisani will be screening Wes Anderson’s *Moonrise Kingdom* (2012). On **Tuesday, September 29**, the program will be screening Dreamworks’ *The Prince of Egypt* (2001). 

On **Wednesday, September 30**, the program will be screening Francois Truffaut’s *The Wild Child* (1970). On **Thursday, October 1**, Breanna Himschoot will be screening Superman as part of the Marvel vs. DC special.

All films will start at 8pm on their respective dates.



####**International House of Philadelphia**

IHP will be diversifying its selection of foreign films with [*Tom at the Farm* (2014)](http://ihousephilly.org/calendar/tom-on-the-farm-tom-à-la-ferme) by Xavier Dolan on *Friday, October 2, at 7:00 pm*. Adapted from Michel Marc Bouchard’s play of the same name, *Tom at the Farm *documents the challenges faced by a young copywriter (Dolan) when he pays his last respects to his boyfriend Guillaume and discovers that his family is unaware of their relationship. At just 26 years old, Dolan has produced an output that is consistently provocative both thematically and aesthetically, earning recognition at the Cannes and Venice film festivals.


##Around the City

####**This Week at the Ritz**

As few films come and few go, we wish to highlight some that might be worth your attention this week.

At **The Ritz at the Bourse**, currently showing is Noah Baumbach’s [*Mistress America*](http://www.landmarktheatres.com/philadelphia/ritz-at-the-bourse/film-info/mistress-america). A disillusioned college freshman in New York (Lola Kirke) is taken in by her adventurous stepsister (Greta Gerwig) who reveals to her the vibrancy of city life. Baumbach’s scripts have been praised for their wry humor and his frequent collaborator Gerwig for her free spirited performances, giving viewers much to look forward to.

At **Ritz Five**, the live-action adaptation of the popular anime and manga franchise, [*Attack on Tita*n](http://www.landmarktheatres.com/philadelphia/ritz-five/film-info/attack-on-titan-part-1), will be shown in two parts. Part one will be shown on **Wednesday, September 30, at 7:30 pm**. Throughout the week, the Ritz will be screening [*The New Girlfriend*](http://www.landmarktheatres.com/philadelphia/ritz-five/film-info/the-new-girlfriend) by Francois Ozon. When a young woman (Anaïs Demoustier) catches her best friend’s husband (Romain Duris) in his wife’s clothes, she is simultaneously threatened by and drawn to him. Known for their frank treatment of sexuality, Ozon’s films can be seen as continuing earlier explorations of identity in the tradition of Hitchcock.


