---
layout: post
title: "Around the Block 8/30"
author: Brad Pettigrew
date: 2015-08-30
excerpt: "What's going on this week in film around Philly"
image: "/images/aroundtheblock.jpg"
displayimage: "yes"
tags: 
- feature
- popular
---
###On Campus
CINE 180: Lost in Translation (8/31 10PM-Midnight)

CINE 180: Sense and Sensibility (9/1 7:30-10:30PM)

Part of Penn Professor of Cinema Nicola Gentili's Cinema in Residence program. He will be presenting briefly on the movie as part of his class, centered on Great Directors, but all are welcome to join.

###International House of Philadelphia (a few blocks off campus at 3701 Chestnut)
Hong Kong action double feature Friday (9/4) at 8PM

Tickets $15

First up, John Woo's *The Killer*, followed by *Fist of the White Lotus*, a film which reunites 70's Kung Fu legends Gordon Liu and Lo Lieh. Gordon Liu's character, Pai Mei, was subsequently resurrected in Quentin Tarantino's Kill Bill Vol. 2, played by Mr. Liu himself. This one's a can't miss for any fans of Woo's inimitable style or the Kill Bill series who'd like to learn more about the genre.

###This Week at the Ritz
The highlight this week at the **Ritz Bourse** is Pulp Fiction back on the big screen for one time only this Friday at midnight. Tickets are $10. A small price for any Tarantino diehard.

My pick this week at the **Ritz East** goes to *End of the Tour*, which released all the way back in July and is still kicking around. The film follows David Foster Wallace (Jason Segal) and the Rolling Stone reporter (Eisenberg) who tags along as Wallace tours the release of his latest, Infinite Jest. The film's a must watch for any fans of Wallace, early reports showered praise on Segal's portrayal, as well as any estranged 20 somethings who've previously been a bit daunted by Wallace's weighty bibliography. 

**Ritz Five**'s got all the good picks this week. If you haven't already, now's your chance to still catch *Mr. Holmes* or *Amy* while they're in theaters as well as more recent releases *Mistress America* (a must for previous fans of Baumbach) or *Best of Enemies*, a Gore Vidal documentary. Though my pick for the Five has to be Hitchcock-esque WWII thriller *Phoenix*, currently sitting at a 99% on RT.

The historic PFS Roxy is also showing *Slow Learners* and the post-apocalyptic *Z for Zachariah* this week, though the later is now available for streaming online. 

###Rave University Six
There's not much to see here. The end of August tends to be the place where all of the studios quietly try to dump the films that got panned in focus groups. Still, if you don't want to wander too far off campus, you've got options. Both *Mission Impossible: Rouge Nation* and *Straight Outta Compton* are still playing. Though since you've waited this long, you might as well try to go on Tuesday, when all tickets are $5.50. Also worthy of note, this Wednesday The Rave will also be showing *Airplane* at 2PM and 7PM, standard ticketing prices apply.
