---
layout: post
title: "Around the Block 10/11"
author: PCI
date: 2015-10-11
excerpt: "What's going on this week in film around Philly"
image: "/images/aroundtheblock.jpg"
displayimage: "yes"
tags: 
- feature

---
##Around Campus

####**PCI Weekly Screening**
This Penn Cinema Initiative screening will feature Louis Malle’s *Au revoir les enfants*, a touching and tragic World War II drama based on the director’s teenage experiences at school. The screening will be presented by Dr. Philippe C. Met, professor of French and Cinema Studies at Penn who’s currently teaching the class CINE 245: Masterpieces of French Cinema. Dr. Met will also be leading a symposium on Louis Malle’s career this weekend.

####Special Event: Louis Malle Symposium
On **Friday, October 16th**, and **Saturday, October 17th**, the Cinema Studies Department will be presenting [The Transatlantic Cinema of Louis Malle: A Critical Reassessment, 20 Years after His Death](https://cinemastudies.sas.upenn.edu/events/2015/October/SymposiumCinemaLouisMalle), a series of lectures, screenings and discussions on the career of the filmmaker behind some of the best films of the second half of the 20th century. Among the many distinct participants are Michel Ciment, editor and film critic of the widely respected *Positif Magazine*, and Justine Malle, the director’s daughter.

####**CINE 180**
Prof. Nicola Gentili, Associate Director of the Cinema Studies program at Penn, teaches CINE 180, a residential film program that meets in Harrison College House. The theme for this year covers “Great Directors” in cinema. This week, the class will be screening and discussing two Michael Haneke films: *The White Ribbon* on **Monday, October 12th at 10pm**, and *Amour* on **Tuesday, October 13th, at 7:30pm**.


####**Gregory College House**
Gregory College House runs a [Film Culture Program](http://gregory.house.upenn.edu/film_culture) for its residents, with screenings happening every day. 

The highlight of this week is the Louis Malle Showcase, organized by Philippe Met, which matches this week’s PCI screening of *Au revoir les enfants* and this weekend’s Louis Malle symposium. On **Monday, October 12th** Philippe Met will be presenting *Black Moon*, a film that the director calls “the most intimate of my films.” On **Tuesday, October 13th** he will be presenting *My Dinner with Andre*, deemed one of the most original films ever made by film critic Roger Ebert.

On **Wednesday, October 14th** Ann Molin will be presenting Kevin Smith’s Clerks.

On **Thursday, October 15th** Breanna Himschoot will be screening V for Vendetta as part of the Marvel vs. DC special.

All films will start at 8pm on their respective dates.



####**International House of Philadelphia**

IHP has a great slate of films for this upcoming week. **Wednesday, 10/14 at 7PM** is a great opportunity for those who haven’t yet been introduced to the smooth cinematography of the luxurious, profound cinema of Max Ophuls, whose [*La Ronde*](http://ihousephilly.org/calendar/la-ronde) stands out as one of the finest in his career. 

On **Friday, 10/16 at 8:30PM**, there will be a free screening of [*Zazie dans le metro*](http://ihousephilly.org/calendar/zazie-dans-le-metro3), one of the films that put its director on the film map, as part of the Louis Malle Symposium taking place over the weekend. Tickets are available through online RSVP. 

On **Saturday, 10/17 at 5PM** they will be screening [A Poem is a Naked Person](http://ihousephilly.org/calendar/a-poem-is-a-naked-person-2), one of the highlights of the career of master documentary filmmaker and long-time collaborator of Werner Herzog, Les Blank. In typical vérité realism, Blank brings us to the world of Rock and Roll Hall of Famer singer-songwriter Leon Russell.


##Around the City

One of this week’s biggest releases will be screening in theaters all around Philadelphia, so be sure to check showtimes on Friday for one of the most anticipated films of this fall: Guillermo Del Toro’s *Crimson Peak*, a return to the horror genre from the director of *The Devil’s Backbone*, *Pan’s Labyrinth* and the *Hellboy* franchise.

####**This Week at the Ritz**

The **Ritz East** is showing [*Bridge of Spies*](http://www.landmarktheatres.com/philadelphia/film-info/bridge-of-spies), a tense political drama starring Tom Hanks as a lawyer recruited by the CIA to negotiate the rescue of an American pilot with the Soviet Union. For the fans of director Steven Spielberg, actor Tom Hanks, and co-writers Joel and Ethan Coen, this is an opportunity not to be missed.


