---
layout: post
title: "Around the Block 9/20"
author: PCI
authorurl: "/writer/PCI/"
date: 2015-09-20
excerpt: "What's going on this week in film around Philly"
image: "/images/aroundtheblock.jpg"
displayimage: "yes"
tags: 
- feature

---
##Around Campus

####**PCI Weekly Screening**
This week the Penn Cinema Initiative will be screening Orson Welles's masterpiece noir thriller *Touch of Evil*. The film features a tracking shot considered one of the greatest long takes in film history and will be presented by PCI President Nikhil Venkatesa.The screening will take place at the Seminar Room M20 at Harrison College House on **Thursday, September 24th, at 9pm**. 


####**CINE 180**
Prof. Nicola Gentili, Associate Director of the Cinema Studies program at Penn, teaches CINE 180, a residential film program that meets in Harrison College House. The theme for this year covers “Great Directors” in cinema.
This week, the class will be screening and discussing *Sunset Blvd.* on **Monday, September 21st at 10pm**, and *Little Man Tate* on **Tuesday, September 22nd, at 7:30pm**.



####**Gregory College House**
Gregory College House runs a [Film Culture Program](http://gregory.house.upenn.edu/film_culture) for its residents, with screenings happening every day. If you enjoyed our screening of *Raging Bull* last week, you're in luck. There's two more of Scorcese's films being shown this week.

On **Monday, September 21st**, Michael Molisani will be screening *The Departed*. On **Tuesday, September 22nd**, Gregory will be screening *Hotel Rwanda*.

If you enjoyed our screening of *Raging Bull*, on **Wednesday, September 23rd**, they’ll be screening one of Scorcese's best, *Taxi Driver*. On **Thursday, September 24th**, Breanna Himschoot will be screening Marvel's *Thor* as part of the Marvel vs. DC special.

All films will start at 8pm on their respective dates.



####**International House of Philadelphia**
In celebration of the visit by Pope Francis to Philadelphia for the 2015 World Meeting of Families, IHP presents a pair of films on the life of his namesake, St. Francis of Assisi this [Thursday, 9/24, at 7PM](http://ihousephilly.org/calendar/brother-sun-sister-moon). "Behold, Francesco" the IHP series, will begin with Roberto Rossellini's 1950 classic film *The Flowers of St. Francis* (Francesco, Giullare di Dio). Based on two books, the 14th-century Little Flowers of St. Francis (Fioretti Di San Francesco)  and The Life of Brother Juniper(La Vita di Frate Ginepro), which relate the life and work of St. Francis and the early Franciscans. The second film in the series will be *Brother Sun, Sister Moon* (Fratello Sole, Sorella Luna) a 1972 film directed by Franco Zeffirelli depicting the early life and conversion of Francesco Pietro Bernardone, over time to become St.Francis.

Admission is free and the films will be introduced by Leonard Guercio, Manager of the Digital Cinema Lab in the TFMA Division of the Center for the Arts at Temple University. 

##Around the City

####**This Week at the Ritz**
There's not a huge amount of new content beyond what we've mentioned in previous weeks at the Ritz ([see previous](http://pennmoviegoer.com/2015/09/13/atb.html)). Regrettably, the Ritz won't be getting Sicario, so we'll have to wait for the Rave to pick it up. Also, it seems we're still left waiting this week for *Pawn Sacrifice*, which has received great reviews so far.

At **Ritz Five**, a special 40th Anniversary screening of Altman's classic *Nashville*. The film was a major inspiration for PTA's Magnolia and will be playing [7PM, Thursday September 24th](http://www.landmarktheatres.com/philadelphia/ritz-five/Film-Info/nashville).



