---
layout: post
title: "Around the Block 9/13"
author: PCI
date: 2015-09-13
excerpt: "What's going on this week in film around Philly"
image: "/images/aroundtheblock.jpg"
displayimage: "yes"
tags: 
- feature

---
##Around Campus

####**PCI Weekly Screening**
This week the Penn Cinema Initiative will be screening Martin Scorsese’s timeless classic **Raging Bull**, starring an Oscar-winning Robert De Niro in an unforgettable performance as self-destructive boxer Jake La Motta. The film, famous for its gorgeous black-and-white cinematography and its breathtaking cuts, will be presented by Dr. Valerie Ross, Director of Penn’s Critical Writing Program and lecturer of CINE 202: Martin Scorsese during this Fall Semester. The screening will take place at the Seminar Room M20 at Harrison College House on **Thursday, September 17th, at 6pm**. This is a film that shouldn’t be missed, and PCI welcomes you to watch it.


####**CINE 180**
Prof. Nicola Gentili, Associate Director of the Cinema Studies program at Penn, teaches CINE 180, a residential film program that meets in Harrison College House. The theme for this year covers “Great Directors” in cinema.
This week, the class will be screening and discussing Jane Campion’s The Piano (1993) on **Monday, September 14th at 10pm**, and Pedro Almodóvar’s Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown (1988) on **Tuesday, September 15th, at 7:30pm**.



####**Gregory College House**
Gregory College House runs a [Film Culture Program](http://gregory.house.upenn.edu/film_culture) for its residents, with screenings happening every day. This week features a fine collection of lighthearted authorial works from Mel Brooks, Richard Linklater and Woody Allen.

On **Monday, September 14th**, Michael Molisani will be screening Linklater’s Dazed and Confused at 8pm. On **Tuesday, September 15th**, Gregory will be screening Allen’s Vicky Cristina Barcelona (2008).

On **Wednesday, September 16th**, they’ll be screening Brooks’s Blazing Saddles (1974). On **Thursday, September 17th**, Breanna Himschoot will be screening Zach Snyder’s Watchmen (2009) as part of the Marvel vs. DC special.

All films will start at 8pm on their respective dates.



####**International House of Philadelphia**
IHP’s line-up features a series of interesting choices for this week, with its two films selected for Saturday’s screenings as the week’s highlight: [Song of the Sea (2014)](http://ihousephilly.org/calendar/song-of-the-sea), Tomm Moore’s Oscar-nominated follow-up to the equally powerful animation The Secret of Kells (2009) at 2pm, and Roberto Rossellini’s fantastic biopic classic [The Flowers of St. Francis (1950)](http://ihousephilly.org/calendar/the-flowers-of-st-francis) at 7pm (free admission). Included on this week’s selection are Jacques Demy’s Model Shop (1969) on Friday at 6pm, Nancy Kates’s Regarding Susan Sontag (2014) on Thursday at 7pm, Johannes Holhauzen’s The Great Museum (2014), and Zeinabu Davis’s Spirits of Rebellion: Black Cinema at UCLA (2015) on Tuesday at 7pm.  

##Around the City

####**This Week at the Ritz**

As few films come and few go, we wish to highlight some that might be worth your attention this week.

At **The Ritz at the Bourse**, an American documentary will take the center stage as the week’s major events vehicle: Stanley Nelson Jr.’s The [Black Panthers: Vanguard of a Revolution](http://www.landmarktheatres.com/philadelphia/ritz-at-the-bourse/film-info/the-black-panthers-vanguard-of-the-revolution). Featuring over 30 interviews and never-seen footage from one of the most important groups in the history of civil rights, the film has a fine rate of 81 at Metacritic and was described as "a strong if only occasionally transporting biography of a movement that terrified the establishment in its day" by The Hollywood Reporter. The film’s producer Lauren Grant and Panther Sultan Ahmed will give Q&As on Friday, September 18th, at 4pm and 7pm, and director Stanley Nelson Jr. will follow with his own Q&As on Sunday, September 20th at 4pm and 7pm.

At **Ritz Five**, a nice hit from Brazil remains in theaters this entire week: Anna Muylaert’s [The Second Mother](http://www.landmarktheatres.com/philadelphia/ritz-five/film-info/the-second-mother). The film, recently selected as Brazil’s pick for the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, was a hit at Sundance and is currently fascinating Brazilian moviegoers and critics. Starring TV hostess Regina Casé in an award-winning performance, The Second Mother tells the story of class struggles between Val (Casé), a housemaid in upper-class São Paulo, Jéssica (Camila Márdila), her daughter, and Val’s employing family. The Sundance hit has a rate of 96% at Rotten Tomatoes and could be an interesting pick for its focus on lower-class protagonists and its South American charm.



